Etch-A-Sketch Project

For this project I utilized HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Setting up the HTML and CSS was quite simple. It wasn't until later on when creating the site interactivity that I began to struggle. Creating the grid in JS was actually not too difficult, the main issue I ran into with the grid was resizing, originally when changing the size the grid would stay the same and append the new grid directly below the current grid. I solved this issue by clearing the previously created DOM elements, and appending the new grid within the container. Getting all of the buttons and features setup went smoothly until implementing the shading feature. The issue I ran into was if the shader button was clicked after clicking any of the other color options, the shader effect would not be applied. If the shading button was the first button clicked it would work properly, but that was the only time it worked properly and it would cause issues with any of the buttons clicked after the shader as well. After evaluating my code I realized the issue, it was the event listeners. With all of the effects, excluding the shader the event listener was tied to the entire grid and not the single squares within the grid, the shader I had built only worked with the event listener addressing each single square of the grid. I believe this was causing the problems since all other effects were mouseover events for the entire grid, and not the individual squares of the grid. To fix this I changed each of the event listeners to mouseover each individual square, and not the entire grid. I also ensured that only one effect could be enabled at each time so the effect would not stay active if another button had been clicked. This project was more difficult than I anticipated, but because of the issues I had encountered during the process, it made the finished product much more fulfilling and I learned things I may not have learned if I completed it on the first try. I still have a long way to go, but each project I build I get more and more confident in my ability to build interactive sites.